WIP - OADP 2419 Release Notes and Update Notes fixed (#67404)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-release-notes-1-3-0.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

> [id="migration-oadp-release-notes-1-3-0_{context}"]

Author: It appears in the ids of all the OADP release note modules. I assume it's their for a reason.

You can subscribe to the service directly from your AWS account.

After the clusters are created, you can operate your clusters by using the OpenShift web console. The ROSA service also uses OpenShift APIs and command-line interface (CLI) tools.

[id="resolved-issues-1-3-0_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

.ACM applications were removed and re-created on managed clusters after restore
Applications on managed clusters were deleted and re-created upon restore activation. {oadp-first} (OADP 1.2) backup and restore process is faster than the older versions. The OADP performance change caused this behavior when restoring ACM resources. Therefore, some resources were restored before other resources, which caused the removal of the applications from managed clusters.

To resolve the issue, it is necessary to first restore the whole managed cluster related resources in the following order:

`securitycontextconstraints,customresourcedefinitions,namespaces,`

`managedcluster.cluster.open-cluster-management.io,
managedcluster.clusterview.open-cluster-management.io,
klusterletaddonconfig.agent.open-cluster-management.io,
managedclusteraddon.addon.open-cluster-management.io,`

> `storageclasses,volumesnapshotclass.snapshot.storage.k8s.io,volumesnapshotcontents.snapshot.storage.k8s.io,volumesnapshots.snapshot.storage.k8s.io,datauploads.velero.io,persistentvolumes,persistentvolumeclaims,serviceaccounts,secrets,configmaps,limitranges,pods,replicasets.apps,clusterclasses.cluster.x-k8s.io,endpoints,services,-,clusterbootstraps.run.tanzu.vmware.com,clusters.cluster.x-k8s.io,clusterresourcesets.addons.cluster.x-k8s.io`

Reviewer: This still looks confusing.

.Possible pod volume backup failure if Velero is installed in several namespaces

There was a regresssion in Pod Volume Backup (PVB) functionality when Velero was installed in several namespaces. The PVB controller was not properly limiting itself to PVBs in its own namespace.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2308[OADP-2308]

.OADP Velero plugins returning "received EOF, stopping recv loop" message

In OADP, Velero plugins were started as separate processes. When the Velero operation completes, either successfully or not, they exit. Therefore, if you see a `received EOF, stopping recv loop` messages in debug logs, it does not mean an error occurred, it means that a plugin operation has completed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2176[OADP-2176]

.CVE-2023-39325 Multiple HTTP/2 enabled web servers are vulnerable to a DDoS attack (Rapid Reset Attack)

> In previous releases of OADP, the HTTP/2 protocol was susceptible to a denial of service attack because request cancellation could reset multiple streams quickly. The server had to set up and tear down the streams while not hitting any server-side limit for the maximum number of active streams per connection. This resulted in a denial of service due to server resource consumption

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In previous releases of OADP, the HTTP/2 protocol was susceptible to a denial of service attack because request cancellation could reset multiple streams quickly. The server had to set up and tear down the streams while not hitting any server-side limit for the maximum number of active streams per connection. This resulted in a denial of service due to server resource consumption.
```

Reviewer: It still needs to be fixed.

The following issues have been listed under this issue:

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2886[OADP-2886]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2895[OADP-2895]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2869[OADP-2869]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2898[OADP-2898]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2904[OADP-2904]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2907[OADP-2907]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2910[OADP-2910]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2889[OADP-2889]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2892[OADP-2892]
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2901[OADP-2901]

For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/cve-2023-39325[CVE-2023-39325 (Rapid Reset Attack)]

For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12422837[OADP 1.3.0 resolved issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-1-3-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

.CSI plugin panics on nil pointer when csiSnapshotTimeout is set to a short duration

> The CSI plugin panics on nil pointer when `csiSnapshotTimeout` is set to a short duration. Sometimes it succeeds to complete the snapshot within a short duration, but often it panics with the backup `PartiallyFailed` with the following error: `plugin panicked: runtime error: invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3069[OADP-3069]

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if we can use the word `panic`. Can we use the word `error` instead?

Reviewer: It would be better to use "error."

.Backup is marked as PartiallyFailed when volumeSnapshotContent CR has an error
If any of the `VolumeSnapshotContent` CRs have an error related to removing the `VolumeSnapshotBeingCreated` annotation, it moves the backup to the `WaitingForPluginOperationsPartiallyFailed` phase. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2871[OADP-2871]

.Performance issues when restoring 30k resources for the first time

> When restoring 30k resources for the first time, without an existing-resource-policy, it takes twice as long to restore them, than it takes during the second and third try with an existing-resource-policy set to `update`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3071[OADP-3071]

Reviewer 2: 30000?

Reviewer: 30,000

> .Post Restore Hooks might start running before Datadownload operation has released the related PV

Reviewer 2: Post Restore Hooks - is this a terminology?

Reviewer: It's not a proper name, so it still should be in sentence case.

> Due to the asynchronous nature of the Data Mover operation, a post-hook might be attempted before the related pods PV's are released by the Data Mover PVC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the asynchronous nature of the Data Mover operation, a post-hook might be attempted before the related pods persistent volumes (PVs) are released by the Data Mover persistent volume claim (PVC).
```

== Upgrade notes

[NOTE]
====
Always upgrade to next minor version. *Do not* skip versions. To update to a later version, upgrade only one channel at a time. For example, to upgrade from {oadp-first} 1.1 to 1.3, upgrade first to 1.2, and then to 1.3.
====

[id="changes-oadp-1-2-to-1-3_{context}"]
=== Changes from OADP 1.2 to 1.3

The Velero server has been updated from version 1.11 to 1.12.

{oadp-first} 1.3 uses the Velero built-in Data Mover instead of the VolumeSnapshotMover (VSM)/Volsync Data Mover.

This changes the following:

* The `spec.features.dataMover` field and the VSM plugin are not compatible with OADP 1.3, and you must remove the configuration from the DataProtectionApplication (DPA).

* The Volsync Operator is no longer required for Data Mover functionality, and you can remove it.

* The custom resource definitions `volumesnapshotbackups.datamover.oadp.openshift.io` and `volumesnapshotrestores.datamover.oadp.openshift.io` are no longer required, and you can remove them.

* The secrets used for the OADP-1.2 Data Mover are no longer required, and you can remove them.

OADP 1.3 supports Kopia, which is an alternative file system backup tool to Restic.

> * To employ Kopia, use the new `spec.configuration.nodeAgent` field. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To use Kopia, modify the new `spec.configuration.nodeAgent` field as shown in the following example:
```

+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  configuration:
    nodeAgent:
      enable: true
      uploaderType: kopia
# ...
----

* The `spec.configuration.restic` field is being deprecated in OADP 1.3, and will be removed in a future version of OADP. To avoid seeing deprecating warnings, use the following new syntax:
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
 spec:
   configuration:
-    restic:
-      enable: true
+    nodeAgent:
+      enable: true
+      uploaderType: restic
# ...
----

[NOTE]
====

> In a future version of OADP, the Restic option will be deprecated and Kopia will become the default uploaderType.

Reviewer 2: This is a duplicate content, same as line 161. You could keep one of these.

* The Volsync Operator is no longer required for Data Mover functionality, and you can remove it.

* The custom resource definitions `volumesnapshotbackups.datamover.oadp.openshift.io` and `volumesnapshotrestores.datamover.oadp.openshift.io` are no longer required, and you can remove them.

* The secrets used for the OADP-1.2 Data Mover are no longer required, and you can remove them.

OADP 1.3 supports Kopia, which is an alternative file system backup tool to Restic.

* To employ Kopia, use the new `spec.configuration.nodeAgent` field as shown in the following example:
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  configuration:
    nodeAgent:
      enable: true
      uploaderType: kopia
# ...
----

* The `spec.configuration.restic` field is deprecated in OADP 1.3 and will be removed in a future version of OADP. To avoid seeing deprecation warnings, remove the `restic` key and its values, and use the following new syntax:
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  configuration:
    nodeAgent:
      enable: true
      uploaderType: restic
# ...
----

[NOTE]
====

> In a future version of OADP, the `restic` uploader type will be deprecated and `kopia` will become the default `uploaderType` value.

Reviewer: Thank you for not calling out expected versions when this will be deprecated.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="migration-oadp-release-notes-1-3-0_{context}"]
= OADP 1.3.0 release notes

The OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.3.0 release notes lists any new features, resolved issues and bugs, and known issues.

[id="new-features-1-3-0_{context}"]
== New features

.Velero Built-in DataMover

OADP 1.3 includes a Built-in Data Mover that you can use to move Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume snapshots to a remote object store. The built-in Data Mover allows you to restore stateful applications from the remote object store if a failure, accidental deletion, or corruption of the cluster occurs. It uses Kopia as the uploader mechanism to read the snapshot data and write to the Unified Repository.

:FeatureName: Velero Built-in DataMover
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Backing up applications with File System Backup: Kopia or Restic

> Velero’s File System Backup (FSB) supports two data movement paths, the Restic path and the Kopia path.

Reviewer 3: s/two data movement paths/two backup libraries

.Possible pod volume backup failure if Velero is installed in several namespaces

There was a regresssion in Pod Volume Backup (PVB) functionality when Velero was installed in several namespaces. The pod volume backup controller was not properly limiting itself to PVBs in its own namespace.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2308[OADP-2308]

For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2819?filter=12422837[OADP 1.3.0 resolved issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-1.3.0_{context}"]
== Known issues

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2688?filter=12422838[OADP 1.3.0 known issues] in Jira.

[id="Upgrade-notes-1.3.0_{context}"]
== Upgrade notes

[NOTE]
====
Always upgrade to next minor version, *do not* skip versions. To update to a later version, upgrade only one channel at a time. For example: to upgrade from OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.1 to 1.3, upgrade first to 1.2, then to 1.3.
====

=== Changes from OADP 1.2 to 1.3

> The Velero server has been updated from version 1.11 to https://velero.io/docs/v1.12/upgrade-to-1.12/#upgrade-from-v110-or-higher[1.12]

Reviewer 3: remove the link to the upstream upgrade instructions.  Upstream Velero and OADP have VERY different install methods. OADP uses an operator, velero does not.   This can do a lot of harm, please remove and just call out Velero v.1.12

Author: @weshayutin 
I'm going to remove the link as well from the 1.2 upgrade notes.

.Example
[source,terminal]
----
oc get dpa -n openshift-adp -o yaml > dpa.orig.backup
----

==== Upgrading the OADP Operator

* Change your subscription channel for the OADP Operator from `stable-1.2` to `stable-1.3`.
* Allow time for the Operator and containers to update and restart.

For general operator upgrade instructions review the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/operators/admin/olm-upgrading-operators.html[OpenShift documentation].

==== Converting DPA to the new version

If you need to move backups off cluster with the Data Mover,  reconfigure the DataProtectionApplication (DPA) as follows:

* You must remove the features.dataMover key and values from the DPA.
* You must remove the VSM plugin.
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
  spec:
   configuration:
-    features:
-      dataMover:
-      enable: true
-      credentialName: dm-credentials
+    nodeAgent:
+      enable: true
+      uploaderType: kopia
     velero:
       defaultPlugins:
-      - vsm
       - csi
       - openshift
# ...
----

Wait for the DPA to reconcile successfully.

==== Verifying the upgrade

> * Follow the instructions to verify the installation. link:https://github.com/weshayutin/oadp-operator/blob/d46d57381a9849dfb791d1bdf564af0582e7e059/docs/install_olm.md#verify-install[Git file]

Reviewer 3: same as above, let's write this out in prod doc and link to it.  Do not link to personal git repos in production doc ever :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="migration-oadp-release-notes-1-3-0_{context}"]
= OADP 1.3.0 release notes

The OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.3.0 release notes lists any new features, resolved issues and bugs, and known issues.

[id="new-features-1-3-0_{context}"]
== New features

.Velero Built-in DataMover

OADP 1.3 includes a Built-in Data Mover that you can use to move Container Storage Interface (CSI) volume snapshots to a remote object store. The built-in Data Mover allows you to restore stateful applications from the remote object store if a failure, accidental deletion, or corruption of the cluster occurs. It uses Kopia as the uploader mechanism to read the snapshot data and write to the Unified Repository.

:FeatureName: Velero Built-in DataMover
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Backing up applications with File System Backup: Kopia or Restic

Velero’s File System Backup (FSB) supports two backup libraries, the Restic path and the Kopia path.

Velero allows users to select between the two paths.

> For backup, specify the path during the installation through the uploader-type flag, the valid value is either `restic` or `kopia`, or defaults to Kopia if the value is not specified. The selection cannot be changed after the installation.

Reviewer: +1 to incorporating this change.

.GCP Cloud authentication

Allows a user to use Google’s short-lived credentials.
GCP With Identity Federation allows you to use Identity and Access Management (IAM) to grant external identities IAM roles, including the ability to impersonate service accounts. This eliminates the maintenance and security risks associated with service account keys.

.AWS ROSA STS authentication

You can use OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) clusters to back up and restore application data.

ROSA provides seamless integration with a wide range of AWS compute, database, analytics, machine learning, networking, mobile, and other services to speed up the building and delivering of differentiating experiences to your customers.

You subscribe to the service directly from your AWS account.

> After the clusters are created, you can operate your clusters with the OpenShift web console or through `cluster-manager-first`. The ROSA service also uses OpenShift APIs and command-line interface (CLI) tools.

Reviewer 4: `cluster-manager-first`
What is this?

Author: @kaovilai 
I don't know. This is a snippet I received.
Should I remove `cluster-manager-first`?

Reviewer 4: I don't know either. Let's wait for others.

Author: @kaovilai 
I can wait till tomorrow morning Israel time, because I need to send this for OCP review tomorrow morning my time. I can always remove it and add it later if necessary.

Author: I removed it so I can send it for review. I'm only going to ask them to merge it next week. If you think we should include it, I will add it after the  review before it's merged.

[id="resolved-issues-1-3-0_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

.ACM applications were removed and re-created on managed clusters after restore
Applications on managed clusters were deleted and re-created upon restore activation. OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP 1.2) backup and restore process is faster than the older versions. The OADP performance change caused this behaviour when restoring ACM resources. Therefore, some resources restored before other resources, which caused the removal of the applications from managed clusters.

To resolve the issue it is necessary to first restore the whole managed cluster related resources in the following order:

> `securitycontextconstraints,customresourcedefinitions,namespaces`,

Author: I'm going to leave this as is.
